AI is not cheap. Welcome to the people
say you're going to spend this much ROI
and this is where a lot of disaster
speakers projects are getting stuck
because they're not not able to prove
ROI. So the way we are doing it is we
are looking at it as business metrics.
I'll give you example for engineering we
have a plan of release right road map
can we reduce the net delay in road map
items delivering that to the business.
So if we say oh we deliver in Q Q3
did we deliver 15 days later 30 days
later right and we want to reduce that.
So that's a business metric that the
business understands and then we have AI
metrics where we say how much code is
generated by AI but that doesn't that's
that's an internal metric at the end of
the day we measure ourselves by did
these two business metrics actually go
down right if they didn't then doesn't
matter I can do I can do 100% AI code if
we don't meet those business metrics it
makes no difference to the business
hey everybody get excited we just hosted
10,000 of you at the Saster annual and
AI summit in the SF area it was insane
it It's off the charts compared to last
year. It was a deep dive on everything
new, everything AI, everything go to
market. And we're getting ready cuz
Saster AI is coming to London in
December. It's Christmas with Saster on
December 2nd and 3rd. We're bringing
Saster AI to the heart of Europe. This
is your chance to connect with thousands
of SAS and AI executives, founders, and
investors, all sharing the secrets to
scaling in the age of AI. If you're a
founder, a VC, a revenue leader, Saster
AI in London is where the future of B2B
meets the power of AI. And we just
announced tickets and sponsorships. So
don't wait. Sasterlondon.com
to grab your tickets. Saster AAI in
London, where B2B meets AI and the next
wave of innovation begins. See you
there.
[Music]
Well, good morning everybody. How you
doing?
My name is Kit Colbert, formerly CTO of
VMware. took some time off and just
started as CTO, platform CTO for
Invisible Technologies. We're very lucky
to have Arvin with us today from Rubric
who's the CTO and co-founder of Rubric.
So Arvin, maybe tell us a little bit
about Rubric for those that don't know
the company or don't know them very
well. First of all, thanks thanks for
having me here.
So Rubric, we started Rubric about 11
years ago.
And the goal was to really build a
platform that provides cyber resilience
to businesses.
From the time we started to now, cyber
attacks have only been increasing. And
our goal is to provide a whole set of
tools both if in case there's a cyber
attack, how we can recover quickly. And
what can you do before a cyber attack to
protect your data, which is your most
critical asset. We just finished, as I
said, 11 years. Uh we rounded out the
last decade by going public last year.
So now we're on to the Thank you. And
now we're on to the next decade of
driving the company forward. Cool. So
let's talk about your growth and your
progress to date. I think we have a
slide here with some of the high level
numbers. Amazing amazing results. Again,
congratulations. Over a billion in ARR.
Yeah.
You know, you started with a a core
product and then you scaled to multiple
products. This is I think a challenge a
lot of companies have as they're looking
to grow and and continue scaling. How do
you think about that? I mean I imagine
there's challenges both from an R&D
engineering perspective as well as a go
to market perspective. No, great
question. I think so with any company
right so as you build out products
there's a certain scale at which you
know certain part of the product grows
to certain scale you can only grow it so
fast right because there's a natural
friction. So the the way we have thought
about it is that we need multiple kind
of curves of innovation, right? So as
one product gets to a mature stage and
there's still a lot of growth ahead of
it, but it's not going to grow at like
100% anymore, right? That's when if you
can bring in a second product which now
accelerates the business and that starts
growing at like 100% every year and that
that kind of so overall your overall
curve of growth stays stays high
and we've been doing this in multiple
products
and we think of ourselves as really
having multiple pillars in the data
protection data security and now AI
space
the way we have done it is you're
absolutely right there's the R&D aspect
and then there's a go to market aspect
which is very critical
on the R&D side, you know, we've been
running a lot of the new products that
we sell the sell today the in our
portfolio all started with the hackathon
project. We we've been running
hackathons since we just finished our
10th hackathon last year. So we've been
doing it from our from year two of the
company and uh it all starts with a few
engineers spending 24 hours hacking up
something and and saying hey this is
this here's an interesting idea and then
we have last year I think we had 130
submissions out of that we take the top
10 we review them and then we go into we
actually go and review all the
presentations and then pick out ideas
that that may be interesting and then
and then take it to product. So lot
almost all of them started that way.
Wow. And then of course there's the
whole question of as we get into a new
space there's the whole kind of like
build versus buy question right and
there have been cases where we felt
usually when you want to build is either
you don't have the skills needed but you
don't have the right kind of DNA
or there's a company that's already
achieved momentum and if you can bring
that in but there have been cases where
we started with a build option and then
we realized you know what let's just go
build this it's easier to build it and
we've gone the other way as well. So
there's a whole build versus buy
question and then as you bring these
products in or even build it organically
over time as you start scaling you have
to start thinking about platformization
right initially you start doing stuff
that's very one-off and then you say
okay now for example for cloud products
earlier each team kind of built their
own products souped to nuts now we're
actually taking all the core platform
areas and creating a generic platform
that you can build on so that's kind of
on the on the R&D side
and then obviously you have to make
investment decisions how much just
invest in the core business versus
innovation and so on. And then on the go
to market side, what we've built is
we've actually built a go to market
incubation engine. So the way it works
is when you're starting a new product,
typically if it's a new buyer,
it's hard for a large core sales team to
go and do that because they're selling
right they're used to selling in a
certain way and the the current product
works well and then they know they can
sell other ones and how does it fit into
the new it's hard for it's hard to go
enable like 500 sellers to do this. So
what we do is we create a initially we
create a go to market incubation team
and these folks they only make money if
they sell this product right so they're
waking up every day thinking okay how
what's the angle here and so they can do
the initial path finding and then what
they do is they say okay this is the and
obviously there's a lot of product
iteration as well so there's a it's a
it's almost think of it as a pod there's
engineers product managers
sales folks maybe one marketing person
they're all iterating on the message and
and the product and then once you see
okay that this is this has legs Then we
transition to what we call a product
line sales team. And this is think of it
as scaling these two to three sellers to
maybe like 10 20 sellers who can now go
and really again again they only get
paid for selling this product. So they
go and now scale this to the next level.
So think of it as zero to 0 to 10 10 to
100 and then once it hits 100 million or
something then you can say now enable
their course by that time you hashed out
the message you've hashed out what
resonates who's the buyer how do you go
so the whole decks and everything all of
that have been built. Yeah, I imagine at
that point the core sales team would
have some conviction in the con take it
to a customer and the product is also
probably more mature. So it's not you're
not getting like bumps on every every uh
PC that you do. So then it it gets ready
to scale. So that's kind of what so we
have this conveyor belt of what we call
RX which is our incubation to product
line sales to core and we have we have
done multiple products in in in this
fashion. Okay, that's great actually. I
love that really good advice. So, let's
continue talking about scaling and you
know, a couple of numbers up there. 39%
year-over-year growth, which is amazing,
and 80 NPS and getting a score that high
is pretty rare actually. I don't know of
many others that have it. So, I'm kind
of curious as you go through this really
rapid scale, you're branching out to
multiple products. How do you keep that
customer satisfaction so high? Yeah, the
the one learning for me through the
through this journey is that with
especially with large enterprise
customers, I know there's this advice
that say no to 95%. I don't believe in
that. I think you have to say yes to yes
to everything, right? Because if if you
lo if you miss a large Fortune 500
customer, it might be 100k deal down the
road that's a 20 30x lifetime value you
can build with a customer. So, you have
to figure out you say yes, but then you
have to figure out what is that piece of
it that they truly need. and and distill
it led down to that in in terms of uh
supporting customers. One of my
co-founders and I were were actually the
first support people. So from like the
first beta customer we had, anything
goes wrong in the field, we'd be the
folks taking the call, working with the
customer, figuring it out. And a lot of
our founding engineers would do the
same. So there's been a a culture of
this customer first, let's make customer
successful mentality that's been there
from the beginning. And that is kind of
like interesting. percolated through the
entire organization. Even today if a
customer says hey I have a problem
engineer will drop everything and jump
on it. I support sales engine everybody
will drop everything and they'll jump on
it.
So that's definitely it's part of part
of it is culture the and we always keep
emphasizing that make the customer
successful nothing else matters. So I
mean I think it's important just to pick
on that point a bit that you as a
co-founder were there CTO were there
hands-on in support doing that because
I've seen a lot of engineering cultures
that have kind of an ivory tower sort of
mentality. They're not they're not as
connected with their customers. I'll
give you an example. There was a early
stage there was a customer at 400 p.m.
they said this customer is really in bad
shape. It was a it was a law firm. There
was some issue and their their email
system was impacted. So literally at I
booked a flight for that night, took the
red eyee, I was on I was with them two
days and just sitting there until they
it was resolved and then flew back. So
you got to do things like this in the
early stages and you got to show that
you care, right? And the other other
learning is that obviously as you scale,
you know, there'll be bumps in the road.
Not every implementation will go as
planned. But what I've learned is that
what customers need is first of all be
transparent.
Tell them don't try to tell them
something that you cannot do. I'll give
you an example. Very large retailer in
Europe. They had this huge Oracle
database. They came and said we need
this right and without this if you don't
have this we're not going to buy you. So
initially there was a lot of questions.
Can we do it? Then we realized this is
no we really can't meet the
requirements. So one of my engineers and
I actually went in front of the customer
and said you know what
you want today they it's you want like a
7 7x reduction in time it isn't going to
happen today but we will invest in this
and in 6 months we'll be able to deliver
it to you but if you want to go with
somebody else I would totally we totally
understand that so you should make the
choice they said okay we'll think about
it next day they came and said you know
what we'll go with you so being
transparent not trying to sell them
something that later they they realize
in there I think is key. The other thing
is there will be mistakes again with
customers all they want is acknowledge
your mistakes.
We are very very open about this was our
we did this we didn't do this well this
is our bad and we start with that we
start with saying this wasn't the
experience you should have had these are
the mistakes we made and we are doing
stuff to fix that and here are steps to
that we will get you into a better place
and usually when you're honest I think a
lot of people are not able to do that
and because their customers get
irritated saying at least acknowledge
that the problem so that's what we've
seen and this is something that we have
a truly world-class support team our
chief customer officer. I mean he's
amazing the team he's built and he was
the one who took took over from us and
threw us out of the support room. You
guys go build the product and he really
built this uh great support team and uh
even when you lost PC's our customers
say you know what your support team is
fantastic but that's true that it
percolates all the way from sales to
support to engineering and so yeah it
seems like there's a deep level of
customer intimacy that you guys have had
from the beginning. Yeah, absolutely.
Cool. Okay, so we're on the AI stage.
So, let's talk a little bit about AI.
Now,
I I I tend to break AI down to a couple
different buckets. We think about it in
terms of technology vendors. How do we
build AI into our products and then how
do we leverage AI internally in terms of
our internal operations and how we
execute? So, I'd like you to talk about
both of those. You start with the
product. What has your product strategy
been around AI? Yeah, so I mean you're
absolutely right. We are thinking of it
exactly what can we do in the product
and what can we do internally. So let's
talk about the product. The product we
think of it as in kind of two ways. One
is our product today is not it's not
easy right? If you think of an average
customer they're using the rubric
platform to protect their data that
could be sitting in the data center
could be a VM could be a Oracle database
they're using it for cloud for again
cloud VMs cloud databases you know
object storage and then they're using
SAS as well. And then there is we have
built a whole suite of security products
which very often the IT persona may not
even have the skills if there is an
attack they don't even know what to do
next. So the first step is to really can
we actually provide an assistant or
co-pilot if you will for the rubric
product to really make it easy and
that's what we call Ruby is kind of this
AI companion for for our for our SAS
platform and what it does is it really
says so for example if you say oh we
found a piece of malware they're like
okay what's an OC and we say okay this
is what it means and then it say okay
what should I do next here's what we'd
recommend and what this does is it uses
our knowledge base documentation
support articles wiks and it also is
able to query
the product itself through APIs put it
all together and answer the question so
that's kind of what we buil so that's
the I would say making our product more
usable we want to do as we scale we want
more and more self-service there's a
problem don't come to support just
handle it to us and that's what
customers want and that's what will help
us scale the second piece is really
about how can we as our customers are on
this AI journey how can we enable them
to build the AI applications they need
And again there are tons of there's lots
of stuff on the foundation models and
obviously that's the that's the core of
everything but most of the time is not
spending is not spent in foundation
model nobody's training models the work
is in okay how do I get access to the
data that I need to solve this
particular use case how do I make sure
that first of all is am I adhering to
the security permissions that that are
there and then more importantly even if
you have access to some data what if
somebody puts something sensitive in
there say financial documents exposed to
all of engineering right and then every
engineer can ask a question and will get
an answer from that so um
so this is where a lot of the time is
spent almost like we've heard like 80%
of AI PC's don't make it to production y
and very often infosc saying no and we
even talked to CESOS who said we don't
want to say no we want to say yes but we
don't even get half good answers for the
questions we're asking and then our
realization was over the 11 years we've
been building exactly all of this a we
take all the enterprise data put it in a
single platform so it's easy to access
it. It's automatically getting refreshed
every day, every every few hours. We
understand permissions so we can
actually make sure that you only see the
data that you're permitted to see and
then we can automatically suppress any
sensitive information mask it so that it
doesn't go into the model. Once it goes
into the model, you don't know how it's
going to manifest itself on the other
side. So, so we were like wait
everything we're building is is really
well suited for the problems that the
enterprise is facing and that's why we
announced a product called Anaperna
which is really and it's very early
stage I would say we're still exploring
the right use cases uh and customers are
also in the very early stage of
innovation but that's where we see a lot
of uh potential there and very excited
about kind of where we have them that's
cool so what I heard is that there's
actually two sort of aspects of this
there's one of how are you enhancing
your product with generative AI to help
the customer and automate a whole bunch
of stuff, make them better at what they
do. But then that second bucket seemed
to be you're actually helping the
customer do AI themselves like they have
AI projects. Solve can we solve the data
problem from it? Focus on your business
use case. Focus on your workflow. Focus
on building the right kind of agents but
don't worry about the data. Yeah. Which
is definitely what I've heard as well
that there's a massive level of scrutiny
and concern about what sort of data do
you have data leakage? Where is that
going? How can you manage that? Okay.
Got it. Okay, let's change tactics and
let's talk about using AI internally
within Rubric. How are you as a company
adopting AI? Yeah. So for the very same
same reasons, we actually at very early
stage we set up a an AI governance
committee. The goal there is to really
have infosc legal everybody coming
together with the goal of enabling AI
adoption across the company but doing it
in a in a safe manner and that's uh that
has been very effective. But then there
was a lot of like grassroot stuff.
Somebody saying, "Hey, I want to try
this." It would go through the
committee. They they'd evaluate it and
say, "Hey, is this secure or not?" And
then if it was secure, they say, "Okay,
go ahead and do it." So we started
seeing a lot of projects pop up. Then we
said, "Okay, let's bring it all
together. There are lots of tools being
used. Maybe we can consolidate." And
also we are building with Anapuna. We've
said a lot of the stuff we could just
build on top of the our own platform. So
we actually did a whole AI summit. And I
know you're asking about like how do the
how does the legal team handle it. It's
actually a VP of legal was actually run
running that initiative. She's like,
"Let's let's get get this going." I
think this is the first time, but we
were talking backstage about this. I
think it's the first time I've ever
heard of like legal running this thing.
Yeah. So, she she was like, "Let's go
make this happen. Let's uh let's adopt a
rubric first strategy so that if we can
leverage our platform, let's use that."
So, uh what we did, we brought in like
people across all organizations. People
were sharing notes on what worked, what
didn't. We gave some basics on how
generative AI works, rag and all of
that. And then now they're going back
and they're coming up with each or is
going to come come up with these are the
business metrics I want to solve and
these are kind of initiatives I'll do
and these are how I'll measure the
success of the AI initiative like AI
specific metrics. So we're going to have
that cross functionally and then make
sure that as a business we are able to
do that. But one of the learnings is
that even if you put these tools out
there people just don't adopt it easily.
They try it once doesn't work they're
like oh I'm not going to go there. So
you got to keep pushing people to go
adopt it saying no no no things have
changed let's go try it let's go try it
give me feedback let me fix it now try
it so you kind of have to keep pushing
so that people adopt it in an
organization and while balancing
security and everything else that you
need to do so it's I mean if you look at
LinkedIn you feel that everybody is like
doing AI like crazy but in reality in a
in an organization there's a lot of work
to make that happen that's what you're
focused on it's still early but well I
imagine a lot of people don't really
haven't really internalized how
different it is to like their workflows
can be using AI like it doesn't occur to
them and and to be honest definitely in
on on coding we're seeing some potent
huge potential gains that we see so we
are really pushing everybody to to start
using AI for their coding obviously in
research and any kind of product
research and things like that there's a
lot of stuff that AI can help with so
yeah so we are adopting tools and and
trying to do that in a in a safer manner
so that there's standardized ways in
which we can do that. Got it. One
question I had for you was to combine
these two AI discussions. I'm curious if
you've your experience doing this
yourself, putting AI into practice and
what you mentioned before about how most
businesses they have AI initiatives but
they're not successful. So what are you
learning about it and how are you
applying that in your customer
discussions? Yeah, I think the the thing
is that you have to bring first of all
you got to bring all the different
stakeholders together whether it's legal
infosc you got to make sure that they
are aligned because if they're not then
you're going to run into all sorts of
bottles so bring them early
to the conversation so that they are
they agree that this is the right
approach and then everybody is aligned
and pushing that forward and then I
think there is a lot of you got to put
stuff out there people have got to try
this and then there's a lot of things
that people can use their imagination
and they're very creative they can do
sorts of things with that but until you
get it out there get the adoption going
you're not going to see what the real
value is so I think you need to give
people time to experiment get familiar
experiment and then the best practices
will show up so it requires so we are
within engineering we're running it very
programmatically we're monitoring this
we're saying how look at the metrics
what's what will help drive those
metrics where are the bottlenecks are
the specific teams that are struggling
so you have to kind of almost run it as
a program got it I imagine as well. You
being you being founder or co-founder
probably helps as well. Go founder mode
on it. Yeah, sometimes I would put my
coordinator on and there you go. All
right. Okay. We have just a minute left,
but if you want to ask a quick question,
we can go into the lightning round here.
Quick question then. So about adopting
AI in the business. How do you evaluate
ROIs? Do you really take care care of it
before uh like a P or after PC? Please
share your experience. Thank you. Great
question. This is actually the biggest
challenge right because AI is not cheap
and people are saying okay if you're
going to spend this much what's the ROI
right and this is where a lot of
projects are getting stuck because
they're not not able to prove ROI so the
way we are doing it is we are looking at
it as so rather than just look at any AI
specific metrics we are looking at
business metrics I'll give you an
example for engineering for engineering
we are saying a can we
we have a we have a a plan of release
right road map can we reduce the net
delay in in road map items to delivering
that to the business. So if we say oh we
deliver in Q Q3
did we deliver 15 days later 30 days
later what was the what is the net delay
right and we want to reduce that so
that's a business metric that the
business understands the other thing is
can we make sure that while we're doing
this hopefully by moving faster are we
keeping the quality bar high so we have
a what we call like a quality index that
looks at defects per account and stuff
like that or cases per account and we're
saying are we making sure that we drive
those down so at the end of the day and
then we have AI metrics where we say how
much code is generated by AI or how much
what is the MTR for certain defects and
stuff like that but that doesn't that's
that's an internal metric at the end of
the day we measure ourselves by did
these two business metrics actually go
down right if they didn't then doesn't
matter I can do I can do 100% a code if
that is not if we don't meet those
business metrics it makes no difference
to the business so at the end of the day
I think you have to wear the business
hat whether you're in R&D or go to
market doesn't matter you have to wear
the business hat and say are you making
things better for the business what are
the metrics you track there and then
have secondary AI metrics that would
hopefully drive these higher level
metrics. So at least
we are following right now. That makes a
lot of sense. Stay grounded. Focus on
the business metrics. Don't get caught
up in the in the high ground. No, signal
to noise is is low. All right. Well,
thank you all for the questions and
Arvin, thank you so much. Really
appreciate it. Thanks for the
opportunity. Thank you.